VERSION + PACKAGE INFO

python version 3.6.5
uses matplotlib, numpy and argparse, noted in the requirements.txt

pip install -r requirements.txt
python path/to/file/FourQuadrantModel.py path/to/file/Data.csv
----------------------------------------------------------
OPTIONAL PARAMETERS

you can change the cap rate used in the property value calcuation (and therefore construction market 
and space market adjustment curves) by optionally adding  -e value.

Example: python FourQuadrantModel.py Data.csv -e 0.07

this will ad 7% to the risk free rate (10 year treasury yield)
----------------------------------------------------------
OTHER NOTE
utilized flake8 for style guide enforcement
----------------------------------------------------------
MODEL + DATA

DATA
input data can be found in Data.CSV. The py script runs regressions but does not write the data. Equivalent output
data can be found on the 'Model' tab of the .xlsx and is in blue text. All transforms can be found in the xlsx
and most are repeated in python. The only exception is that the quarterly data is only converted to monthly in excel. 

HYPOTHESIS
Based on personal observation, I question whether the real estate market is behaving according to it's fundmentals. 
To investigate this, I used economic census data on construction spending, housing inventories, lessor revenues as inputs 
to DiPasqal & Wheaton's Four Quadrant Model for analyzing the real estate market as an introductory research step to investigate
whether the system is functioning as it should. 

CONCLUSIONS
The most intriguing result is that quantity of construction and quantity of rental units
appear to be inversely releated, which is counter to the model's predictions and to common sense, however it is consistent
with the intital hypothesis. One potential reason could be that larger units are being constructied, but the overall 
number of units is declining or staying flat. Additional analysis on the nature of residentail multi-family home construction
would be required. Statistical testing is incomplete (did not test data for autocorrelation, heteroskedasticy, skew, or p-tests for statistical
significant). Proxies were used for property values and rent, construction data was incomplete. Best efforts were made
for soundness of the data. 

FOUR QUADRANT MODEL MECHANICS
An increase in demand for rental housing should put upward pressure on rents in the short run, 
this leads to increased asset prices, taken as rent/caprate (ceterus parabus), higher asset prices 
eventually lead to increased construction activities. Increased construction activities are eventually reflected
in the as a rental market adjustment stock adjustment. The construction activities can be thought of as a call option 
with a price equal to construction costs and a strike price equal to asset prices. As asset prices increase, 
existing projects go in-the-money as it is worth it to build, if asset prices fall the option is out of the money 
and it costs more to build then the asset is worth. If prices continue to rise the construction costs rise with them until the option
is out of the money and construction activity stops. At that point the initial increase in demand is met, rents fall back to
a new equilibrium level, this depresses property values, which further disincentivies new construction. 
